add ssc python article (#1026)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/semgrep-supply-chain/sss-python-lockfiles.md

Author: you are right

Author: Done it!

---

> description: Generation of Python lock files to run SSC scans successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Generate various Python lock files to run Semgrep Supply Chain scans successfully.
```
We have to spell out SSC in case our users don't know what it is :)

tags:
  - Semgrep Supply Chain
  - Python
  - Knowledge Base
  - Lock files
  - requirements.txt
  - Pipfile.lock
  - Poetry.lock
---

> # Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Generating Python lock files for Semgrep Supply Chain scans
```

> Python has different mechanisms to get all packages used in a project. The most known file is requirements.txt, a "simple" txt file where you define all the packages and the versions your project needs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python has different mechanisms to detect all packages used in a project. 

Semgrep Supply Chain can use any of the following methods to correctly parse your dependencies and detect vulnerabilities:

* `requirements.txt`
* `Pipfile.lock`
* Poetry
```

We mention that requirements.txt is the most common file used (in line 21) so we can remove it here. I just shortened the text and created a list for easier skimming.

> But there are more ways to get a complete insight into Python dependencies, such as generating a Pipfile.lock file or use the Poetry tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can use these three ways (requirements.txt, Pipfile.lock, Poetry) to get a successful semgrep supply-chain scan.

## Generating requirements.txt from requirements.in

The file requirements.txt is the most common file to declare all the package dependencies.
The easy way to generate this file is having a requirements.in file with the direct Python packages (not transitive packages), and then using pip-tools to generate the requirements.txt file:

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

pip3 install pip-tools   
pip-compile -o requirements.txt

> `````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

It looks like the formatting broke here, do you mind committing my suggestions so I can continue  checking @sebasrevuelta

:::info Prerequisite
A `pyproject.toml` file.
:::

### Example `pyproject.toml`

```
[build-system]
requires = ["poetry-core>=1.1.0"]
build-backend = "poetry.core.masonry.api"

[tool.poetry]
name = "example-project"
version = "1.0.0"
description = "An example project"
authors = ["Your Name <yourname@example.com>"]

[tool.poetry.dependencies]
python = "^3.9"
requests = "^2.25.1"
numpy = "^1.21.0"

[tool.poetry.dev-dependencies]
pytest = "^6.2.4"
flake8 = "^3.9.2"

[build-system]
requires = ["poetry-core>=1.0.0"]
build-backend = "poetry.core.masonry.api"
```

### Generating a `Poetry.lock`

Generate a `Poetry.lock` with the following command:

```bash
poetry lock
```

The generated `Poetry.lock` contains all transitive and direct dependencies that the project uses.

## Selecting a single lockfile among many

While there may already be a lockfile in the repository, such as a `Pipfile.lock`, you may want to generate a new one, for example `requirements.txt`, to be sure it has the latest dependencies.

In Semgrep, you can use the flag `--include` to specify only one lockfile:

```
semgrep --supply-chain --include=requirements.txt
```

> Alternatively, your repository may have a lockfile of the same name (`requirements.txt`), but you want to generate a fresh and updated version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, your repository may already have a `requirements.txt` file, but you want to generate a fresh and updated version.
```

Running the previous command results in the following error:

```
[ERROR] Found pending changes in tracked files. Baseline scans runs require a clean git state.
```

This error is due to git conflicts between `requirements.txt` that is already in the repository and the one the job generates each time.

A solution to that can be to generate the `requirements.txt` file in a specific folder so you can specify this file in the Semgrep scan:

```
semgrep --supply-chain --include=ssc/requirements.txt
```

## Conclusions

> There are several ways to get lockfiles with Python dependencies. Depending on your preferences, you can select one or another. Keep in mind that the lockfile should be generated before the Semgrep scan and with the proper environment. This ensures that you are scanning only the dependencies of your project and to prevent scanning all the Python dependencies in your system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several ways to generate lockfiles for Python dependencies. Depending on your preferences, you can select one or another. Keep in mind that the lockfile should be generated before the Semgrep scan and within the proper environment. This ensures that you are scanning only the dependencies of your project and not all the Python dependencies of your system.
```
